design.md, before:

# Requirements
## Functional
Take an input CSV file of land registry paid prices and group the data by:
- REQ 1: Postcode
- REQ 2: Property within Postcode
- REQ 3: Date and Price of each Property

It should be possible to query the re-shaped data by postcode to see the history of all prices for all properties within that postcode.  Note, in the UK, a postcode usually equates to a single street (although not always in sparsley or very densely populated areas).

## Non-Functional
The implementation should be able to execute fully within an Azure environment.  Within this, the following are desired:
- NFR1: Low cost PaaS components should be used (serverless / no-ops)
- NFR2: Complexity should be reduced to a reasonable minimum, although achieving this should not override NFR1.
- NFR3: Data Egress costs should be minimised (ingress is usually free) as the asusmption is that reads will far exceed writes.
- NFR4: The 'latest' land registry CSV file contains approx. 100,000 records, although this process should cater for an annual file (approx. 1 million rows).

# Design
## Phase 1  
| Requirement | Azure Choice | Notes |
|:-------------|:--------------|:-------|
| REQ1/2/3 | Blob File | create a hierarchical document structure to group all properties within a postcode |
| NFR1 | Blob File | low-cost storage |
| NFR1 | Function | low-cost serverless compute (free montly executions) |
| NFR2 | Queue Storage | use as an intermediate store (functions are too limited for large memory grouping/sorting operations) |
| NFR3 | Blob File | groups many property prices and the hierarchical document structure de-duplicates data |
| NFR4 | Function | could possibly scale by multiple executions but cannot multi-thread or parallel process within a single function due to small resource size |
  
Create a single python function app, with a timer trigger, to stream read the land registry CSV file, and write each property record to queue storage specifically associated to single postcode.  

Azure Queue Storage has these capacity constraints:
- Maximum size is 500Tb for all queue's within a storage account
- Message max size is 64Kb
- Maximum TTL (time to live) is 7 days
- Unlimited number of queues

Function App processing steps:
- Stream source data file
- Decode record and determine its postcode
- Create the queue if it does not exist
- Store decoded record to queue
  
### Update 1
Git branch "full-file"  
Creating queues by postcode results in over 100,000 queue creation requests.  Because of this, two test executions timed-out locally after 30 minutes (Azure consumption plan time-out is 5 minutes).  Therefore, change the queue granularity to be the outcode (the first half of a postcode).  
Some outcodes are only 2 characters long.  This makes them impossible to create as a Queue (minimum name length = 3 characters), so append the prefix "landreg-" to each queue name.   

### Update 2
Git branch "full-file"  
The resulting outcode process creates approximately 2,300 queues.  
Execution times across three tests for just queue creation averaged 7 minutes.
However, execution times including message insert always exceed the funciton app time-out after 30 minutes. 

The next option is to split our workload into much smaller units that can each run within under 5 minutes.  Firstly, try to load a single outcode of price records into a queue.  Choose the outcode with the largest number of records in the file, and run locally.  If ok, publish to Azure and run as a test.  
In the monthly update file, outcode **B5** has 257 records.
In the yearly 2019 file, outcode **CR0** has 2,133 records.
Optimise the queue client creation and and message send operations.

### Update 3
Git branch "per-outcode"  
Timing for single Outcode storage queue inserts
| Job | Queue Inserts | Approx Time |
|:-----|:---------|:-------------|
| Monthly Update (local) | 257 | 11 secs. |
| 2019 Yearly (local) | 2,133 | 1 min, 31 secs.|
| 2020 Yearly (local) | 2,338 | 1 min, 27 secs. |
| 2020 Yearly (Azure) | 2,338 | 53 secs. |
| 2020 Yearly (Azure) | 2,338 | 55 secs. |
  
To complete the design, there are now some additional steps required.   
- Determine when the Outcode records for the monthly update file have changed.  Triger this process daily      
    - Read the file and create a distinct list of Outcode RowKeys and at the end, hash each set per Outcode  
    - Read configuration for the previous hash of each Outcode  
    - If the hash is different, send a message to the "Execution" storage queue with the outcode as the payload  
    - If the hash is different, replace the new hash value into the configuration record  
    - Create a Function App that is triggered by a message in the "Execution" storage queue and process the insert for the outcode given
    - Execute the Outcode specific Queue insert process
  
### update 4
Git branch "outcode-config"  
Configuration should be saved across executions.  This should use Azure Table Storage.
  
Azure *Table storage* has these limitations:
|Feature | Limitation |
|:--------------|:----------------|
|Unique Key per Entity|2 values: Partition Key + Row Key|
|Max Columns (properties) per Row|252|
|Max Row Size (data) |1Mb|
|Max Key Size (each) |1kb|

Table storage records can also be inserted in batches of 100 records.  Use this feature to reduce the number of API calls when inserting config.

Commit message:

update docs for final commit of branch

design.md, after:

# Requirements
## Functional
Take an input CSV file of land registry paid prices and group the data by:
- REQ 1: Postcode
- REQ 2: Property within Postcode
- REQ 3: Date and Price of each Property

It should be possible to query the re-shaped data by postcode to see the history of all prices for all properties within that postcode.  Note, in the UK, a postcode usually equates to a single street (although not always in sparsley or very densely populated areas).

## Non-Functional
The implementation should be able to execute fully within an Azure environment.  Within this, the following are desired:
- NFR1: Low cost PaaS components should be used (serverless / no-ops)
- NFR2: Complexity should be reduced to a reasonable minimum, although achieving this should not override NFR1.
- NFR3: Data Egress costs should be minimised (ingress is usually free) as the asusmption is that reads will far exceed writes.
- NFR4: The 'latest' land registry CSV file contains approx. 100,000 records, although this process should cater for an annual file (approx. 1 million rows).

# Design
## Phase 1  
| Requirement | Azure Choice | Notes |
|:-------------|:--------------|:-------|
| REQ1/2/3 | Blob File | create a hierarchical document structure to group all properties within a postcode |
| NFR1 | Blob File | low-cost storage |
| NFR1 | Function | low-cost serverless compute (free montly executions) |
| NFR2 | Queue Storage | use as an intermediate store (functions are too limited for large memory grouping/sorting operations) |
| NFR3 | Blob File | groups many property prices and the hierarchical document structure de-duplicates data |
| NFR4 | Function | could possibly scale by multiple executions but cannot multi-thread or parallel process within a single function due to small resource size |
  
Create a single python function app, with a timer trigger, to stream read the land registry CSV file, and write each property record to queue storage specifically associated to single postcode.  

Azure Queue Storage has these capacity constraints:
- Maximum size is 500Tb for all queue's within a storage account
- Message max size is 64Kb
- Maximum TTL (time to live) is 7 days
- Unlimited number of queues

Function App processing steps:
- Stream source data file
- Decode record and determine its postcode
- Create the queue if it does not exist
- Store decoded record to queue
  
### Update 1
Git branch "full-file"  
Creating queues by postcode results in over 100,000 queue creation requests.  Because of this, two test executions timed-out locally after 30 minutes (Azure consumption plan time-out is 5 minutes).  Therefore, change the queue granularity to be the outcode (the first half of a postcode).  
Some outcodes are only 2 characters long.  This makes them impossible to create as a Queue (minimum name length = 3 characters), so append the prefix "landreg-" to each queue name.   

### Update 2
Git branch "full-file"  
The resulting outcode process creates approximately 2,300 queues.  
Execution times across three tests for just queue creation averaged 7 minutes.
However, execution times including message insert always exceed the funciton app time-out after 30 minutes. 

The next option is to split our workload into much smaller units that can each run within under 5 minutes.  Firstly, try to load a single outcode of price records into a queue.  Choose the outcode with the largest number of records in the file, and run locally.  If ok, publish to Azure and run as a test.  
In the monthly update file, outcode **B5** has 257 records.
In the yearly 2019 file, outcode **CR0** has 2,133 records.
Optimise the queue client creation and and message send operations.

### Update 3
Git branch "per-outcode"  
Timing for single Outcode storage queue inserts
| Job | Queue Inserts | Approx Time |
|:-----|:---------|:-------------|
| Monthly Update (local) | 257 | 11 secs. |
| 2019 Yearly (local) | 2,133 | 1 min, 31 secs.|
| 2020 Yearly (local) | 2,338 | 1 min, 27 secs. |
| 2020 Yearly (Azure) | 2,338 | 53 secs. |
| 2020 Yearly (Azure) | 2,338 | 55 secs. |
  
To complete the design, there are now some additional steps required.   
- Determine when the Outcode records for the monthly update file have changed.  Triger this process daily      
    - Read the file and create a distinct list of Outcode RowKeys and at the end, hash each set per Outcode  
    - Read configuration for the previous hash of each Outcode  
    - If the hash is different, send a message to the "Execution" storage queue with the outcode as the payload  
    - If the hash is different, replace the new hash value into the configuration record  
    - Create a Function App that is triggered by a message in the "Execution" storage queue and process the insert for the outcode given
    - Execute the Outcode specific Queue insert process
  
### Update 4
Git branch "outcode-config"  
Configuration should be saved across executions.  This should use Azure Table Storage.
  
Azure *Table storage* has these limitations:
|Feature | Limitation |
|:--------------|:----------------|
|Unique Key per Entity|2 values: Partition Key + Row Key|
|Max Columns (properties) per Row|252|
|Max Row Size (data) |1Mb|
|Max Key Size (each) |1kb|

Table storage records can also be inserted in batches of 100 records.  Use this feature to reduce the number of API calls when inserting config.
  
### Update 5
Table storage proved to be so easy to use, I decided to also make it the price record storage medium, replacing the previous design choice of blobs.  The additinal benefits of this are the ability to query rows by partition + row keys and to perform upsert (insert if now, else update) operations on rows.

Price records:
- There should only be 1 record per property
- Prices should be stored in a column as a array of key/value pairs (date: price)
- The partition key should be the Postcode
- The row key should be the address
  
### Update 6  
Git branch "price-batch"  
We encountered another timing issue when inserting many rows into Azure table storage.  A single threaded python process can insert approximately 1000 rows within a 5-minute window, although the this leaves a narrow margin of safety.   

There are only 2 ways to increase table storage insert performance.  Either parallel process or insert in batches of 100.  We will choose to insert price records in batches but this means we must alter our partition key, as all records belonging ot a single batch insert must be for the same partition key.

Price records:
- Partition key is outcode (already our grouping in queue's by outcode)
- Row key is now the postcode followed by the address
- Address should also now be stored as an additional non-key column
